In this video we were exploring Python variables.
Think of variables as containers for storing data values in Python.
Creating a variable is simple as assigning a value to it.
Here is an example.
In this code, x is a variable that holds the number five, which is an integer, and y is a variable
that holds textjoin, which is a string.
Let's execute the first example.
I use the debugger mode.
I add a breakpoint.
We can see the result in console, and we can see the variable via this window.
X is a variable that holds the number five, which is an integer.
Y is a variable that holds Joan, which is an austere I print x.
Print y in the console x five and y is zone.
Python doesn't need especially command to declare a.
Variables.
Variables in Python are dynamic.
They don't need to be a specific type and can change type even after being set.
Here x starts as an integer with value four.
Then change to a string with the value Charlie.
Let's try this example x.
Take the the value for.
X take the value four.
I print the result.
After that x take Sally as an str.
Let's see the variable x.
X take the value sally which is an str and we print the result in the console.
Which is next.
If you want to specify the data type of a variable, this can be done with with casting.
Here x is defined as str, y is defined as int and z is defined as float.
Let's execute this example.
Here x it will be in str.
Variables.
X str three.
Next y it will be int.
And z it will be float.
And you can see the result here.
X is an estimate y is an int and z is a float.
If you want to know the type of a variable, use the type function.
Sanction.
We will continue with the same example.
Here x take a next year.
Y take an int and z take a float.
Let's verify the type of each variable.
I select the the window variables.
X its class str y its class int and z.
It will be class float.
There is another example x.
Take five as an integer and y take a zone as a.
Next year, let's see together the type of these two variables.
X it will be class int and y it will be class str.
String variables can be declared either by using single or double quotes.
Here x is defined with double quotes, and here x is defined with a single quote and there is no difference
between these two syntax.
Let's try that.
Here we have x defined with double quote.
Five.
Single or double quote.
Section five x defined with double quote.
The type of x is str.
Next x is defined with single quote.
And the same type str.
Six.
Remember that variable's name in Python are case sensitive.
That's mean.
Lowercase and uppercase are different variables.
In this example, lowercase a holds the integer four and the uppercase A holds the string sally, and
the uppercase will not override the lowercase.
Let's execute this example.
Six case sensitive A takes lowercase, a takes the number four and the uppercase take the number.
Take the steer.
Sally.
Let's print the two result.
Lowercase a.
Take the value four and the uppercase A.
Take the steer.
Sally.
There are two variables.
Two different variables.